When we get down to it traditional
SEO is more than anything about
making it easy for
crawlers to do their job.
Crawlers are the automated like
bots software programs that
they will open a webpage and they'll crawl
out they'll like read through it and
they'll follow all of the links
to all of the pages you link to.
And they basically try to
understand your content,
understand what it's all about, and
then traverse anything that you're linking
to and anyone that links to you in order
to figure out the topology of the internet
right, how everything is connected.
And at the very least you want to make
sure you don't interfere with their
ability to do that, that's like, that
is the easiest way to mess your SEO up.
While we're making it easy for
crawlers to do their job.
We wanna make sure that we're also paying
attention to our content in particular,
and you'll often read about
this concept of quality.
The thing you wanna aim for
is stuff that is of true interest
to your users and your clientele.
If you aimed for things that
are appealing to like programs,
if you try to just stuff a bunch
of key words into things,
search engines have been wise to that for
about a decade or more and
you'll in fact be sort of flagged as
someone who's trying to game the system.
So just the focus should be on
providing good content for your users.
And, this means that oftentimes
you're gonna want to find out what is
the niche of your business, right?
So in the case of front end masters, that
wouldn't just be like learn stuff online,
but it would be the JavaScript and
front end topics that nobody else offers
training on, right or we offer it deeper?
And here are the subject areas using
keywords, like we're gonna talk about
service workers and we're gonna talk about
how to write your own SAS functions and
just nobody else is able
to address these topics.
And this concept of being targeted and
unique is what helps you stand
out from the rest of the crowd.
When indexers which are part of
how this crawling technology,
ingests your content and
understand what it's about.
When they process your site, they're
gonna throw out all of the common words,
all of the terminology that
everybody else is using.
And if you have some unique
specific terminology leftover, you
can think of that as being the defining
characteristic of like the topic and
the level of depth that
your content is all about.
So when we talk about quality, we mean
that there should definitely be something
left after we shed away like the generic
boilerplate, verbiage, and material.
You also wanna focus on richness of
content, but there's a caveat here.
So when I talk about rich richness of
content, I mean including videos, and
imagery and making sure things
are styled appropriately so
that it's easy for people to read.
For one because as you as you may assume,
like people who these companies
who are built around search,
they have trackers everywhere,
and they can monitor how long
people spend on particular pages.
And so the actual human behavior
that your customers and
your readers carry out,
that influences your SEO writing, right?
How likely they are to come in?
How likely they are to share it?
How much time they spend
there versus bouncing out and
deciding like, yes I arrived here but
no, this isn't what I was interested in.
Or you just hit me with
a plain wall of text and
like I'm now about to read all of that.
The caveat is, images and
videos cannot be sort of ingested and
distilled down to their core content,
like text can.
So if you have a great video there,
there's no way for for
a search engine to really
know what it's about.
Or we're starting to move in that
direction and you can see that YouTube
with its automated translation
services and it's automated.
What do you call it, like,
gives you the transcript of what was said,
this is a step forward, but anytime that
you can supplement media with text, while
providing that richness that will boost
sort of the quality level of your content.
So search indices have a recency bias,
meaning they
favor content that is new over content
that's been around for a while.
For one, it's content that is new
is of interest to users, right?
So if you are, you have a top ten list of
the best Chrome extensions to download,
and you're updating that every week.
That's something that is current,
it's likely to be fresh, it's likely to
still be accurate, rather than a list
from 2013, that's four years old.
That the assumption is that someone
who's written an equivalent article,
but is constantly keeping it up to date,
every time your site is crawled,
we noticed that there's a change.
This will play favorably in
terms of how you end up ranking.
And this it also goes to show that like
you wanna eliminate dead links, you wanna
maintain things, because as soon as things
start to fall into an unmaintained state
where things are a little bit broken, or
maybe the page doesn't render correctly.
That will be taken as,
it's sort of not getting
the love that it needs and
you will fall in the rankings.
We're gonna talk today about
the concept of link building.
This is to say you want influential
sites to refer to your URLs and
this is the driving factor that determines
where you show up in search results.
This is equated with quality and
importance in the SEO world.
So we will get into some specific link
building strategies, things you can do
to accomplish this because, it's one
thing to say get people to link to you,
but I wanna leave you with some concrete
advice later on as to tactically how
you can go about making that happen.
Finally, there's this thing
called keyword stuffing.
So we have a meta tag and it's called
keywords that you can put in your HTML.
Things that fall into this category,
they were so over used and
it's such a polluted landscape,
in terms of all
of the various WordPress SEO plugins like,
taking this approach and
abusing it, that things like this
are just ignored completely.
And the same category is white
text on white background,
with a bunch of keywords that is also,
like that trick is known,
and it sort of just washes out,
it's not worth doing.
Yes, we have a question.
>> I was actually gonna just comment on
that because like Gary Vaynerchuk always
says like marketers ruin everything.
You can assume that, anytime there's
something that can be exploited,
it will be exploited.
And that's why the field
of SEO continues to evolve.
And that's why we're talking about
modern SEOs today instead of the tactics
of five years ago or ten years ago solely
because marketers ruin everything and
exploit every possible tactic.
>> No offence to the marketers in
the room or watching the video.
Mark doesn't mean he doesn't mean you,
he means the other marketers.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So, but it is, as Mark points out it
is a moving target that we're aiming for
here where they're sort of escalation
as people find out a strategy that helps
them stand out about their competitors.
And then they'll write about it or they'll
form a consultancy that will implement it
for people,
then sort of everyone starts using it.
And then in order to find
new people that stand out,
the search engines have to kind of
escalate and find new strategies for this.
And for this reason, by the way,
it is a protected secret of
the various search engine companies
like exactly the algorithm that they use
in order to define, whose showing up
as a higher search ranking than others?
The reason is if people knew it,
they would explain it.
And then, we would, everyone would
have a maximal search rating and
like it would be pointless.
It would not be the search engine would
not be valuable to users anymore.